[Update 8] - Add custom repository support (#7514)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/learn-the-platform/source-code-dependencies/manage-dependencies.md

* The distribution repository
* The Ballerina Central repository

> It also supports a third repository named the `local repository`. It temporarily overrides dependencies, which is useful for the package development and bug fixing phases. Additionally Maven custom repositories are also supported, which are useful to bring the user's private repositories into the dependency management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also supports a third repository named the `local repository`. It temporarily overrides dependencies, which is useful for the package development and bug fixing phases. Additionally, a predefined set of custom package repositories are also supported, which are useful to bring third-party repositories into dependency management.
```

> It also supports a third repository named the `local repository`. It temporarily overrides dependencies, which is useful for the package development and bug fixing phases. Additionally, a predefined set of custom package repositories are also supported, which are useful to bring third-party repositories into dependency management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also supports a third repository named the `local repository`, and temporarily overrides dependencies, which is useful for the package-development and bug-fixing phases. Additionally, a predefined set of custom package repositories are also supported, which are useful to bring third-party repositories into dependency management.
```

The local repository is also a file system repository, which will be created in the `<USER_HOME>` location. The repository location is `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/repositories/local/bala`. 
For more information, see [Use dependencies from the local repository](/learn/manage-dependencies/#use-dependencies-from-the-local-repository).

> **Maven custom repositories**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Custom repositories**
```

> Maven custom are remote repositories and create a local file system cache at `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/repositories/<REPOSITORY_ID>/bala`. Ballerina queries the remote repository only if the specified dependency version is not present in its local cache. For more information, see [Use Maven repositories for the dependency management](/learn/manage-dependencies/#use-maven-repositories-for-the-dependency-management).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom repositories

Ballerina supports one or more custom remote repositories which can be configured in the `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml`. A local filesystem cache is maintained per repository at `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/repositories/<REPOSITORY_ID>/bala`. Ballerina queries the remote repository only if the specified dependency version is not present in its local cache. For more information, see [Use dependencies from a custom repository](/learn/manage-dependencies/#use-dependencies-from-a-custom-repository).
```

Correct the link if necessary.

> Ballerina supports one or more custom remote repositories which can be configured in the `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml`. A local filesystem cache is maintained per repository at `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/repositories/<REPOSITORY_ID>/bala`. Ballerina queries the remote repository only if the specified dependency version is not present in its local cache. For more information, see [Use dependencies from a custom repository](/learn/manage-dependencies/#use-dependencies-from-a-custom-repository).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports one or more custom remote repositories, which can be configured in the `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml` file. A local filesystem cache is maintained per repository at `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/repositories/<REPOSITORY_ID>/bala`. Ballerina queries the remote repository only if the specified dependency version is not present in its local cache. For more information, see [Use dependencies from a custom repository](/learn/manage-dependencies/#use-dependencies-from-a-custom-repository).
```

Once you complete the above steps, the dependency will be picked from the local repository when building the package.

> Ballerina considers the version specified in the Ballerina.toml as the minimum required version and uses the local repository to resolve the dependency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina considers the version specified in the `Ballerina.toml` file as the minimum required version and uses the local repository to resolve the dependency.
```

However, the compiler gives priority to the latest version if a new patch version is found in the distribution or Ballerina Central repositories.
At this point, the compiler resolves the latest version and ignores the dependency version in the local repository.

## Use dependencies from a custom repository

> Ballerina supports Maven repositories such as [Nexus](https://www.sonatype.com/products/sonatype-nexus-repository), [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) and [Github packages](https://github.com/features/packages) to be set up as custom repositories. You can configure the custom repository in the `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml` file to integrate it to the package resolution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ballerina supports Maven repositories such as [Nexus](https://www.sonatype.com/products/sonatype-nexus-repository), [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/), and [Github packages](https://github.com/features/packages) to be set up as custom repositories. You can configure the custom repository in the `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml` file to integrate it into the package resolution.
```

```toml
[[repository.maven]]
id = "<repository-id>" # This ID is used when pushing/ pulling balas
url = "<repository-url>"
username = "<username/userId>"
accesstoken = "<password/accesstoken>"
```
The below steps show how to configure a GitHub package repository to resolve a specific dependency.

```toml
[[repository.maven]]
id = "github_1" # This ID is used when pushing/ pulling balas
url = "https://maven.pkg.github.com/jackson12/jackson-encrypt-module"
username = "jackson12"
accesstoken = "ghp_nMlJsjshhdtdt5367389920020hHfrdrd"
```

### Publish a Ballerina library package to a custom repository

1. Generate the Ballerina archive. 
   ```
   $ bal pack
   ```

2. Publish to the custom repository.
   ```
   $ bal push --repository <repository-id>
   ```

    If you already have the path of the Ballerina archive, execute the below command.

    ```
    $ bal push --repository <repository-id> <path-to-bala-archive>
    ```

### Pull a Ballerina library package from a custom repository

> 1. Use the following command to pull a Ballerina package from a custom repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following command to pull a Ballerina package from a custom repository.
```
Be consistent with the usage of the word when they can be used interchangeably.

However, the compiler gives priority to the latest version if a new patch version is found in distribution or Ballerina Central repositories.
At this point, the compiler resolves the latest version and ignores the dependency version in the local repository.

> ## Use Maven repositories for the dependency management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use dependencies from a custom repository
```

> Currently, [Nexus](https://www.sonatype.com/products/sonatype-nexus-repository), [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) and [Github packages](https://github.com/features/packages) are only supported. To use this feature `Settings.toml` needs to be configured with the proper repository configurations.

Reviewer: Ballerina supports [Nexus](https://www.sonatype.com/products/sonatype-nexus-repository), [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) and [Github packages](https://github.com/features/packages) to be set up as custom repositories. You can configure the custom repository in `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml` to integrate it to package resolution.

```toml
[[repository.TYPE]]
id = "<repository-id>" # This id is used when pushing/ pulling balas
url = "<repository-url>"
userId = "<username/ specific-userId>"
accesstoken = "<password/ accesstoken>"
```
Here `TYPE` can be anything among `nexus`, `artifactory`, `github`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows how to configure a GitHub package repository to resolve a specific dependency.

```
Add an example of the configuration in Settings.toml and the Ballerina.toml

Reviewer: Add an example of a GitHub packages configuration. Use github as the repo-id

> ### Publish Balllerina archieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publish the Balllerina archive (.bala)
```

1. Generate the Ballerina archive. 
   ```
   $ bal pack
   ```

2. Publish to the custom repository.
   ```
   $ bal push --repository <repo-id>
   ```

   If you already have the path of Ballerina archive, then,

    ```
    $ bal push --repository <repo-id> <path-to-bala-archive>
    ```

> ### Pull Balllerina archieve

Reviewer: Pull the Ballerina library package

> 1. Ballerina package from the custom remote repository can be pulled using following command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ballerina package from the custom remote repository can be pulled using the following command. 
```

    ```
   $ bal pull <org>/<package-name>:<version> --repository <repo-id>
    ```

> ### Use the dependency to build package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use a dependency from a custom repository
```

1. Similar to `local` repository, custom repository packages can be specified in the `Ballerina.toml` file and utilised in a similar manner.

>     ```toml

Reviewer: Use the repo details shown in the Github example to show the dependency.

> However, the compiler gives priority to the latest version if a new patch version is found in distribution or Ballerina Central repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the compiler gives priority to the latest version if a new patch version is found in the distribution or Ballerina Central repositories.
```

At this point, the compiler resolves the latest version and ignores the dependency version in the local repository.

## Use dependencies from a custom repository

Ballerina supports [Nexus](https://www.sonatype.com/products/sonatype-nexus-repository), [Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/) and [Github packages](https://github.com/features/packages) to be set up as custom repositories. You can configure the custom repository in `<USER_HOME>/.ballerina/Settings.toml` to integrate it to package resolution.

```toml
[[repository.TYPE]]
id = "<repository-id>" # This id is used when pushing/ pulling balas
url = "<repository-url>"

> userId = "<username/ specific-userId>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
username = "<username/userId>"
```

> accesstoken = "<password/ accesstoken>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accesstoken = "<password/accesstoken>"
```

```
Here `TYPE` can be anything among `nexus`,  `artifactory`,  `github`. The following steps show how to configure a GitHub package repository to resolve a specific dependency.

```toml
[[repository.github]]
id = "github_1" # This id is used when pushing/ pulling balas

> url = "https://maven.pkg.github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
url = "https://maven.pkg.github.com/jackson12/mypackagesrepo"
```

userId = "jackson12"
accesstoken = "ghp_nMlJsjshhdtdt5367389920020hHfrdrd"
```

### Publish the Ballerina library package to a custom repository

1. Generate the Ballerina archive. 
   ```
   $ bal pack
   ```

2. Publish to the custom repository.
   ```

>    $ bal push --repository <repo-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ bal push --repository <repository-id>
```

   ```

>    If you already have the path of Ballerina archive, then,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you already have the path of the Ballerina archive, execute the below command.
```
Shall we make this a note?

    ```

>     $ bal push --repository <repo-id> <path-to-bala-archive>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ bal push --repository <repository-id> <path-to-bala-archive>
```

    ```

> ### Pull a Ballerina library package from a custom repository

Author: This suggestion was given by @azinneera. AFAIK It emphasis the meaning of library

> ### Pull the Ballerina library package from a custom repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pull a Ballerina library package from a custom repository
```

> 1. Ballerina package from the custom remote repository can be pulled using the following command.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.Use the following command to pull a Ballerina package from a custom repository.  
```

    ```

>    $ bal pull <org>/<package-name>:<version> --repository <repo-id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ bal pull <package-org>/<package-name>:<version> --repository <repository-id>
```

The `package-org` is equivalent to the `group-id` whereas the `package-name` is equivalent to the `artifact-id`.

    ```

### Use a dependency from a custom repository with build

1. Similar to `local` repository, custom repository packages can be specified in the `Ballerina.toml` file and utilised in a similar manner.

    ```toml
    [[dependency]]

>     org = "boor"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    org = "jackson"
```

    name = "encrypter"
    version = "2.1.1"

>     repository = "github_1" # Repository id is from above Settings.toml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    repository = "github_1" # must match a repository id configured in the Settings.toml
```
